Ah, geez. I get all this way and I can't think of what to write.

Well, sorry I've been away so long. I shouldn't let it go nearly a month between updates. Hence: Bullshit. Named such 'cause that's what it *is*. Bullshit is a new column on my page I've created for the basic purpose of keeping me actively engaged with the site. The goal is to write something, no matter what garbage it might be, even if I just talk about my toenails and how they should be hooves instead of stubby, stub-your-toeable toenails, or some other such nonsense. Essentially, I need a babysitter.

Anyway, on to the topic of why I've been so ghost lately: Next month is NaNoWriMo November, which I have pledged to be a part of. I intend to be the best part, the author of my very own novel, which will be my best novel EVER! And also my only novel as of yet, so I don't know what I'm shouting for. God, it's late, and I should be in bed. I'm getting wiggy. In any event, I'll be setting it in my gargantuan universe of There Are No Terrans, which I haven't mentioned yet on this site, but I should do an article on soon, as it's basically where everything you've ever read of mine takes place. EVEN THIS, RIGHT NOW. Indeed, meta-fiction is an aspect of the universe, what with me as its dreamer and simulation hardware. To the end that my first novel be halfway decent or at least finished, I've been plotting and scheming and building a story with people and places and drama and things of that type since the start of October. I won't be caught with my pants down like I was with my trial run! But that's the point of trials, anyway. But there is another thing which has been taking my time, and unfortunately that of the book, but it is a parallel endeavour, so I let myself slide... I'm turning No Terrans into a comic book. Yes! Although you're only just hearing about this amazing new world, I'm already giving you special bonus graphic content to feast your soon-to-be ravenous minds on! On the other hand, you're more likely one of my family or friends since this website is **still** *hella ninja*, in which case you've heard me go on for decades about TanT so I'll just stop right here. And there you have it: Why it took me three weeks to finally post something new here. Next time I'll aim for a reasonable time of day, too. I just don't write readable stuff this late at night. 6:30 bedtime is way too late for a grown old man like me. Like I said -- babysitter.
