Hey, hope you find this chat
yup i gotcha. hows nano?
Don't understand the question. I got one more person coming in for the same reason.
you're FreakyCharlie789 right and this is the writing buddy hangouts group?
Yeah that's right
oh good. i meant nanowrimo
Slow. What are you doing? Do you need help ?
it's slow here, too. been having mean writer's block
Yeah, every writer has his own way of dealing with that. I just watch a movie and wait for inspiration
my system is usually something similar. what are you writing about?
a reverse detective story. From the pov of a thief, but with a twist
that sounds like it could be interesting
What about you?
i made an elaborate worldbuild and now i'm having trouble deciding a story to tell
maybe I can help. Is it a fantasy uiverse?
science-fantasy kitchen sink. I really just through a bunch of stuff in a pot and forgot about it for a while! I've been thinking it might be better to just flesh out the world and make my nano project a sourcebook, like Masamune Shirow's databooks
I did the same thing for a universe mixing modern fantasy, sci fi, detective style and superheroes all together. It sounds ridiculous told like that, but with the right approach i think it could be nice
You just have to stay focused on one side of things 
and there's always refuge in audacity
what do you mean 'one side?'
one aspect of your universe. Let's say politics, stay focused on politic and slowly introduce the rest of your universe as you go
it takes place in the 3rd millenium. The galaxy is in disarray following a massive war--Really, it was more like an extermination. Most of humanity lives in supermassive megastructures they once had the keys to. The extant populations are provolved creatures adapted from humans centuries ago by godlike intelligences called Archai that vanished shortly after the apocalypse.
politics are tricky, cause as soon as someone gets running one of the old "precursor tech" machines, they try to take over the galaxy
What do they earn by running one of those machines?
they could threaten the galaxy if it doesnt destroy them
Do you have a main character?
I have a couple different storylines I'd been working on before my writer's block got the better of me
shoot
i'm proud, too--they're really promising stories that have a lot of opportunities to showcase and reflect my world. My first follows Zuriya, who's a breed of Superman-type people called Nephilim. She's on the run from a slick, evil thing some scientists set on her to track her down after she escaped from their lab. It seems she's of interest to my other character, Astoy, who doesn't have much of a background yet. Maybe Astoy is putting together The Ensemble to save the world... Or destroy it. In which case, she'd probably meet KoKo, my 3rd femme fatale, and she's basically the black Tomb Raider of the year 3000.
before november began, I was working on a comic book about a war between a caretaker AI, CEENEX, and an AI virus named SAYGEN in one of the megastructures, and I'd plotted out the first arc and things were looking good. Puny humans got caught in the middle and tried to survive, maybe even saving the day and destroying the virus. When november came around, my inspiration just withered
If I were you I'd merge both stories. Get an organization who is actively working on destroying the planet before the virus is spread to other planets (who would then be evolved). And have CEENEX be the one who is actively trying to save the planet by capturing the virus' AI in one megastructure with the help of one human (astoy) to save the world. Zuriya does escape from the lab of the people trying to destroy the world and hides in the megastructure where the CEENEX successfuly captured SAYGEN. KoKo could then be the embodiment of SAYGEN's consciousness to get rid of the humans who are keeping her from leaving the planet.
Turns out Astoy is the leader of the group trying to destroy the planet and captured SAYGEN so that The Ensemble could have enough time to blow up the whole planet (otherwise SAYGEN can just load into another database) KoKo then has to team up with Zuriya to get rid of Astoy, but he is the one in control of CEENEX who is keeping SAYGEN from going away. Zuriya have to choose between saving the planet but allowing SAYGEN to infest other planets, or leaving Astoy do his thing and kill everybody on Earth
Did that help?
yes, a lot actually, and im bringing my laptop to the library to be more productive--brb
Zuriya escapes the lab, and runs. She makes it to the teleporter (Thank god!) and teleports herself randomly to another part of the big megastructure surrounding the sun. . . the part containing SAYGEN (Oh no.) So now she's trapped in a hostile place that's under quarantine, so pretty much everybody will try to prevent her from escaping, just like they would with SAYGEN. But it turns out SAYGEN is slowly spreading. CEENEX's countermeasures have been ineffective. Zuriya finds another teleporter. It's been disabled to prevent SAYGEN from teleporting itself across the megastructure and spreading faster than anyone can combat it, but Zuriya still has the keycard she used in the previous teleporter. When she uses it to teleport herself out of the ````````` before it can be used on SAYGEN. Astoy is an agent of CEENEX--her right-hand-girl, and she's been cataloging SAYGEN and working with CEENEX to develop a successful countermeasure. When she discovers the teleportation out of the quarantine zone, she travels to where Zuriya is to try and prevent the spread/destroy whatever SAYGEN-infected material is there. Then SAYGEN starts teleporting bits of himself all over the megastructure. So CEENEX sends Astoy and Zuriya out of the megastructure, then teleports the ENTIRE MEGASTRUCTURE into a pocket dimension, where she will continue to perform testing on SAYGEN, though at this stage of infection, it's unlikely she'll be able to fight him off. Unfortunately, not before SAYGEN was able to send out an encoding of himself. So now Astoy and Zuriya have to track down and figure out how to destroy Larval-SAYGEN, while SAYGEN and CEENEX wait behind the veil for another story.
He sent himself to a passing, relatively small (only a thousand people or so) asteroid habitat. There, he used their fabrication technology to transform the hab (and the people in it) into aspects of himself. From the outside, the habitat appears normal. On the inside, it's turned into a hivemind. All people, machinery, and governments, are SAYGEN. Over time, he would continue to subsume larger and larger habitats. His ultimate goal is to subsume and become all thought in the universe.

He had evolved out of a simulation of an unburied and rejuvinated archailect's avatar.

Some time later, Astoy and Zuriya are working on a cure when Astoy discovers the transmission sent by SAYGEN when CEENEX teleported into the pocket dimension. She realizes how impossible it would be to track it down, but that they must, somehow. So they return to that system to look for clues. When they arrive, they find that in place of the megastructure, space is very nearly empty. What remained were a few observation satellites, the local NavStar system. They'd never taken the system off the map. The megastructure still existed in the NavStar system's registries, and they--I don't know how I'm going to get them out of this one. Maybe I won't, and SAYGEN takes over the galaxy. That doesn't sound like the story I think I wanna tell, though. The galaxy's not so interesting when it's a single hivemind thinking the same thoughts. Maybe it becomes an archailect in its own right and the sequel to the book will take place in the god-intelligence's mind as some unknowable simulation. But that leaves the book with not much of an ending.

I'm thinking that I might have to come up with some sort of sourcebook before I can write a novel. Is that just insecurity talking?
Not many people will bother to read the sourcebook. They'll go to the story and the novel first. You should slowly introduce aspects of the universe in a way to supports the vibe you want to convey (for example; the reader doesn't know where they are, what planet of whatever, but they know the name. And as the characters evolve and learn more about the story, the reader learns more about the universe. This is perfect for twists)
oohh! but writing a novel and orchestrating those twists is so hard! I suppose I should be writing the book for consumption by other people, but I feel very inadequate to decide what other people might consume. you're right, of course. A story is way more fun than a mere collection of bits.
Id love to just have audio podcasts where I explain everything about my universe (could take me days! (almost literally)) but if nobody knows what I'm talking about, they won't enjoy just reading about the order of things. First they must like/love that thing
Other people will consume the same thing you would in the same scenario. When they see that the story lacks in originality or whatever, they'l go away. You must first captivate, then set a perspective(s) for the story, then tell your story from this perspective.
I have a story about modern magicians and everything. Since this genre is seen as childish and a bit cheesy for "normal" people, well i'll tell a story where magic is in our modern world, I'll show them that it could make sense and that it's 1 particle away from being possible (in my universe), then i set my perspective who will be in charge of unveiling this universe ( a witch in New York working for a powerful wizard) and then boom, the story goes, the wizard vanishes, everybody rushes for the treasures he was keeping, and the witch and a few of her friends try to find those treasures before them to protect them.
childish and cheesy? but that's basically harry potter and all them horcruxes.--Have you seen the Harry Potter book sales? It's more universal than Star Wars!
I didn't say that it wouldn't sell. I'm the biggest harry potter fan in the room (but then again i'm alone). But as good as they were, they monopolized the genre in a way Star Wars couldn't. After Star Wars there were a lot of sci fi movies (successful and unsuccessful) but after the Harry Potters, nobody continued the modern fantasy on tv because it wouldn't get the attention of the people who watch(ed) tv
But today, those who read the harry potter books when they came out have grown, and the genre is ready to evolve. There's so much untapped potential 
kind of a shame when you think about it like that. could have been a lot of great sword and sorcery there
there still could be
but like you said the genre is ready to evolve
Yeah, so my ultimate goal for the years to come is to make that happen ( ambitious much? ;D)
maybe its just the influence of pokemon, but that prospect seems incredible
i have a similar goal with my world i think
want to set it in a class of its own
What you've told me so far reminds me a lot of a manga I heard about
Manga generally have really inovative setting but go in unholy directions
it might be an inspiration to me. A lot of manga were devoured in the making of the setting
what's it called?
Blame
!!!!
INDEED!
i'm wild for anything/everything tsutomu nihei.
The megastructures gave it away
except the expressionlessness of his characters
Then you can easily set the boxes you want to check: Big, lot of space, old, ruin-like, silent, scary, void...
...ancient, otherworldly, technologically-beyond-our-reckoning
It's hard to write about void but you can make this feeling transpire through a lack of dialogues or characters noticing small noises here and there
Then you can set what style your new genre will be like: epic, detective...
doing that will allow you to see how you will describe your world. Vibes are like colored glasses giving you different interpretation of the same thing
a sense of space...
an emptiness
The story gets a different feeling after you do tha
an echo like a distant conversationalist... answering my call.
of course, there has to *be* a story to begin with. one can get away with a lot more in a graphic novel format than one can with literature.
indeed. That's why I always make sure my stories work for the two formats
Lately the character designs have been flowing out, but the dialogue, description, narration--the analogues to the lines and curves and spaces of light and shadow I draw my scenes and characters with--just haven't been coming out right
I feel like my fingers are tongue-tied when it comes to the keyboard and No Terrans.
I feel like I'm wasting precious time when I try to force myself--I could be spending that time working on character designs--but I have to write NaNo! There's got to be a better way to deal with this than trying painfully to force myself or ignoring the literature all together? That was when I considered the possibility of making a sourcebook--graphic and literature bits together, I thought maybe it would help me get *something* done.
In these scenarios I always try to remind myself of what got me into doing what i'm doing. If I'm stuck with my modern fantasy story, i go watch harry Potter, if I'm stuck in my reverse detective novel, I go watch Ocean Eleven or sherlock holmes...
In the immortal words of someone on the internet: "good art is like a fart, if you have to force it, it's probably shit"
it's so true
it's funny i just said that last night, too. after a real good fart
It's just difficult to focus on something specific. My mind wonders but I always come back to the stories i started
I miss good farts. When it flowed on the paper without counting the pages (elongated metaphor)
so blame was an inspiration. the aliens movies were an inspiration. neuromancer. . . how long do I have to return to my inspirations before I can begin the real work? What if i'm still uninspired?
the story itself could be told in a few paragraphs. But once you understand why and how these inspirations inspired you in the first place, you can understand how to infuse these inspiring characteristics in your story
the real work (writing) is just a technical aspect. You could write for months without having anything good in the end because you didn't spend enough time thinking about it.
It's not supposed to be easy, the harder it is, the better it'll be.
As long as you end it
that's reassuring. it feels pretty bad right now. Aliens inspired me with the analog, cathode-ray-tube vibe. it gave the setting this far-future low-tech sensation. It was one of my first inspirations, and it's stuck with me. No Terrans is about people in the 3rd millenium left with all this advanced technology they dont understand and investigate in crude and really human ways. Nihei's stuff had an aesthetic appeal that just resonated with me on a personal level. Blame's subterranean exploration is the closest thing I've found to my weird dreams. Reminded me there's no reason to set everything on planets. . . Silly things, anyway. Who thought it was a good idea to put air and water and other volatiles on the *outside* of the hab?? Neuromancer felt like static, vhs tapes, uncertainty, and intrigue. In a way, this whole NaNo endeavor is just so I can put an end on a project. Make something whole and complete and finished.
If you feel like you are inspired enough. Just write
if i don't?
It seems stupid said like that, but once you got the core concept in your head, write and everything will flow
If you don't, another way is to set yourself as a characetr of your story, what do you see, what do you do, who do you meet, how do you introduce yourself to them
etc etc
or if i don't feel inspired to write? if songs fly through my head and character portraits... i could draw them and write the music, but it wouldn't help me at all for nano
There's more than one way to tell a story. But you do have to tell a story
so it might not be a bad idea to sketch them out anyway?
you could do a year by year description of your megastructure (log like)
I always sketch my characters out, it helps me visualize their behavior
maybe i should storyboard them like a comic
Maybe the POVs of SAYGEN and CEENEX
i've been avoiding that, trying to type instead
The only thing is that a novel is written
didnt want to take up all my time with comix 😛
cause yea, a novel is written
Or talk as a historian
let them wonder what it's all about, how you could be an historian for something that seems to be in the future.
kind of like Max Brooks in Day Z?
Don't know that, but maybe
(he told the story from the perspective of a documentarian of the zombie plague)
that's nice
each chapter was either an interview of a character or a depiction of an event
But does your setting allows that?
i don't see why anyone couldn't be a documentarian...
How about it's all a videogame, you have logs with questions from game designers and everything and the reader never knows what it's about, they just know that the characters in the story talk about themselves in the third person
like they were characters in a play, talking about their roles?
say, the whole thing between CEENEX and SAYGEN is like a performance. koko and zuriya and all my characters talk about it
It's just considering the ending of your story. It would feel a bit out of place to have them be interviewed
yes a bit like a play
Maybe a 80th century version of west side story 
or romeo and juliet
that's kind of how I write, actually. I mean for the finished NaNo I was thinking of writing it like most books are read
the characters are characters in the story and dont break the 4th wall and all
but when i'm working, the characters and myself and everthing have this kind of internal dialogue. it's a sort of metafiction, and I started writing it down i just figured the raw form like that wouldn't be appropriate for nano
it's very question-and-answer format, like an interview. Q: "Aystoy, how do you know Zuriya?" A: ". . ."
. . .Lately, they've been quiet.
That's what's nice about art, there's no limit to what it allowed
They ask for a novel, a novel is a story told in prose. If you exploit this to make something different, then and only then you'll stand out from the crowd of work that everybody write
so maybe I should consider making something like the databook afterall?
But you wouldn't be able to tell a story then
i mean, what's a databook--it's a collection of facts and ideas and knowledge about a thing told in prose and images
i mean it's not a novel
if i write something different and not a novel, something like the metafiction, for example, something where I analyze the story and disconnect the characters from their roles--show them as people playing an act, as they are in my head, talk about the megastructure, and the world, and the history--it's not quite a databook, but it's a lot closer to that than a novel.
maybe like a documentary about the story
you still get to tell the story
The Simarillion wasn't a databook, either, but I still wouldn't call it a novel. That's not to say, also, that it didn't have a story
it
*it's just, the story wasn't really the focus of it
more like the world was just a cool thing in and of itself and stories could, of course, take place in it
and so that's how one of the most influencial fantasy epics of all time was created
so more like an encyclopedia
i guess it was something similar
i'm not trying to model the simarillion, here, just making conclusions
i never actually read it in its entirety, anyway
model all you want. True originality doesn't exist, we just steal bits from other stuff and make our own
i agree
It's just that people tend to like a good story rather than just a thoroughly explained universe (or at least a story first, something to hook the reader)
good artists borrow; great artists steal
that's still true, but I think I have a little bit of freedom to explore, since I'm not writing to a dedicated fanbase (yet)
Then I'd find an eye catching way to do it. Not just long paragraphs
I can still make something nobody will like, and there's no guarantee I won't even if I'm trying to make something to pull people in
and that was where I thought of the databook--images can tell people so much more sometimes, and really, I'm still unsure I can pull off 50k words in 30 days
at least I am right now. Last month, I didn't have any worries. I thought I could've wrote the book in a week if I felt so inspired.
the idea of a databook was an escape; a cheat
What about you find a way to mix both. Encyclopedia format, pictures maybe and definition and the all thing. But all throughout the book, we see reference about characters and past events
This way you tell the story like it's a legend, an old story that historian recreated
almost like I'm the documentarian
Yeah
the metafiction becoming semi-real
That's what I'm doing for a bullshit version of history. I take a famously mysterious historical character like Jack the Ripper and fill the holes of history with supernatural explanations
bringing JtR into your world?
For example, Jack the Ripper was a vampire who was turned by the Count of Saint Germain. He couldn't control his urges so he killed people in the streets and all
Yeah, my universe is basically the one we live in but with an alternative history
magic has been around for centuries, mutants were hunted during the middle age and all
It's fun to bullshit my way through history
but it asks a lot of research
a kind of unofficial official backstory to my setting is that all the 80's sci-fi stuff happened--skynet, Japan taking over the world, cyborgs and megacities and all that. . . of course the setting's timeline starts some 2000 years after all that and Earth is either a bunch of fine dust and rocks or an irradiated ball so far removed from contemporary culture, somewhere at the center of the wormhole network that it has no bearing on current events. Kind of had to--"No Terrans" being in the name and all, it's just an afterthought to justify the rapid growth of technology in the 21st century leading to the state of things only a millenium later
That's interesting
I don't think you're legally allowed to make direct references. But maybe you are, you should look that up
i guess, point being that any Earth-history is so far removed in time and/or space that it would seem out of place in There are no Terrans. . . "TANT," cause it's easier. But I like your idea of taking things that happened and juxtaposing them within your world--making up their reasons to be there and how they work and all that afterwards. It was kind of how TANT came in to being at one point, was I would see a cool movie, and think, "Geez! That's gotta go in the book!" Then, come up with thaumetric forces that let the superpowered characters cast their magic and fly and punch through buildings, or specifically in Aliens, the reason for all the Cathode-Ray Tech being that analog systems are easier to maintain and repair than digital which just needs to be replaced, and the setting's ships generally go on long voyages. . . Although that's not such a great example when the ability to print new hardware is pretty common.
i guess the setting is not entirely homogeneous
You have to remember that Blame played mostly on the feeling of void and unsettling calm and empty spaces. This isn't the kind of thing you can show in a story report
Ah, I'm pretty sure things like "Skynet" are copyrighted, but "Japan" is not, "cyborg" is public domain. . . Anyway, "GaiaNet" took over the Earth, "Nippon" too, blah blah
yeah i see
yeah blame's sense of space and scale was unreal. It convinced me to set the world and the people in it to a greater level of danger. . . people with superpowers in a superpowered world, as opposed to people without, or without so effective superpowers in a superpowered world. It's not actually an advantage; The Nephilim like Zuriya were always supposed to be strong, but now the cyborgs and bioroids and blahblahblah trying to kill her are too
i suppose if i do end up doing a more "report/simarillion/databook-like" thing, I'll want to throw in short stories, too. I do
maybe most superpowers are a bit useless in this particular setting
Well you can do anything you want, but in different parts and mixed withing the encyclopedia and eventually connect them together
That's actually a great concept
i would like to write stories in this world. it's not just that other people wouldnt be hooked by a jackson pollock type smattering of ficts on a fictitious world--I wouldn't find it very engaging, either. And you're right again--it's not just the sense of void I couldn't carry through that format. It's really any of the senses! It would be like a wonderful, glistening, steaming, beautiful, piping hot wax meal. Yum yum without flavor.
Yeah, but if you're confident enough in your universe, your story can support your success
*well, the short stories within your encyclopedia*
if i neglect to write stories, i won't have saved myself any trouble. That's for sure. I think most superpowers will be a bit useless in the setting. In fact, maybe that's another sense I want to convey through my stories here--no matter how big you are, there's something bigger out there that thinks you're food. Our weapons have the greatest capacity to do harm to ourselves and everything else that isn't the enemy you want to use them on haha
it's a dark but deep message. gee, i should write a story on that
if only i could bridge that gap between the wonderful idea and its wonderful execution
man is wolf to man, we autodestruct
I like to take quotes like that and just make a story out of it; or at least a concept
man is wolf to man is sheep to wolf
how do you do that?
Like, Man is wolf to man, i picture a werewolf story with psychological fallouts
Small town, sightings of werewolves, people start leaving, some stay, it was all a hoax but the responsibles are ready to kill the other habitant to get the city for themselves (for whatever reason)
what do you do when you reach a part of the story you think falls through, or you just dont know where to take it next?
do you ever get tired of it and lose your inspiration?
Yeah, all the time. I have 5 stories I've started without ever finishing, but it's still in the backburner of my mind.
The thing is, your story will ask for time and caution, but now, you don't have no time for caution (interstellar reference anyone). I'd go something simple yet efficient
something YOU feel you'd want to read in one sitting. Something engaging, moralizing, topical, fanastical ...
haha i cought that
. . .or something I'd want to write in one sitting. . .
but to summarize, I need to be inspired
I need to WANT to write, not jut because I told all my friends and family I was writing a book--no, specifically, that I was writing 50000 words in 30 days and oh what a fool move that was now I need to write something NOW before I have to return to them empty-handed, but I-LIKE-THIS-STORY-AND-I-NEED-TO-TELL-IT-NOW kind of writing
which really is the best to read, and the only enjoyable kind to write
. . .and that i will find that inspiration in, well, obviously, my inspirations, and when I feel inspired enough to create, I'll know it
grrr! i *feel* the wish to tell great stories within me! I can almost make out the details--She's blonde, brunette, redhead. This one's the main character, this is her nemesis--but still, they just kind of sit there in the back of my mind like half a bowl of alphabet soup
Alright, let's have a quick quiz
What genre?
hai senpai
science-fantasy post apocalyptia?
List all the works you know in that genre
not just those you like, those you know
scifi: too many hundreds to list, but for starters--Alien+/Predator, Star Wars things, Akira, Halo franchise, Warhammer 40K franchise. . .
fantasy: lotr, harry potter, tales of the raven, Berserk, Conan the Cimmarian's stories, umm. . .
(post-)apocalypse: !!!! Woefully Inadequate !!!! Fallout series, that really cheesy anime named "A Wind Called Amnesia," Trigun, Book of Eli, Walking Dead, Z Nation

Oh! TANT bridges into horror: Stranger things! Classics like Ringu, The Grudge, Noroi, At The Mtns of Madness and other Lovecraft stuff, House of Leaves
Do you know anything that gathers all these genres?
a thread they all have in common, besides the fact that I know of them? . . .No.
no i mean a story with all these genres
not that I can think of off-hand. . . There are a few that maybe cross 3 of 4 genres, and some, like Star Wars really could depend on the particular story in question, what with all the EU material
I guess the Fallout franchise comes closest. Rad-punk superpowers like gamma radiation creating a civilization of mutated humans being sort of fantasy magic, after all
though it's really adventure-fiction, and any horror elements would have to be inferred
horror is polyvalent, almost too much so, I wouldn't go for that
what story is science fantasy?
i forgot to list it, but the Final Fantasy 7 movie is sci-fant. i figured all the genres were polyvalent--good vocab word, by the way. i had to look that one up in the dictionary.--science-fantasy being a plain mix of both science-fiction and fantasy genres, and TANT branches several
how would you describe the final fantasy universe in 5 words?
actually that movie was one of this conworld's first ever inspirations. Probably influenced it more than any other on a subtle level. Say, . . .Swordfights, Gunbattles, Magic and Dieselpunk? Do articles count?
yep. musketers in 1850 france had guns and sword. Maybe guns are mostly used but sword stay for tradition and because society is fancy and all
(well at least the apocalyps at least
in TANT i justified swords
dont want to be shooting holes through your ship, or the reactor, or whatever, most of the time
created a whole niche class of weapon--half gun, half bladed weapon
Nephilim are kind of Orkish in my setting, and took the sword thing to the next level. When you're faster than a bullet, the whole "never bring a knife to a gun fight" thing sort of falls through
That, and their swords are made from special exotic metallics forged by the Jotun that are stronger than diamond and amplify thaumetric force (whatever that means)
actually the nephilim only exist so I could tell final fantasy 7 in space with my space-elves in space like alistair young
don't elevate the standards too much. You still want those sword to break when the story needs it
Last question: Do you write a lot of descriptions?
now i can see a wise old apocalypse-world sage telling sum yung neph punk, "The swaaard iz only az strauung as the one who wields it!"
yeah
i guess
when appropriate
do you want to read what I wrote?
It's late so i'll probably read it tomorow but yeah
What do you think about a pirate ship like space adventure
And i mean exactly like pirates, looking for a treasure, very fashionable, rude...
and in competation against other pirate crew and their spaceship
Once you self contain a story  to a setting (like a play), the characters become much more important to the plot and to the reader
Yeah that sounds like fun! Sounds like something my RPG group would get into. . . I put most of my stuff up on my website, www.lightspeedlifeme.ga, and I don't write outside of TANT much, so yeah. What did you mean, "contain a story to a setting?"
*self contain. Basically have the character stay and interact in the same setting (spaceship) for most of the story
ahhhh
okay, the cast is the crew of a ship, they go to investigate a derelict craft, to search for clarketech and such. The ship is massive, many kilometers long--a megastructure in its own right. Somewhere along the way another pirate crew comes to investigate the ship. only, the first guys dont like that. fights begin and blahblahblah. oh shit! maybe they have to figure out how to bring the derelict's guns online to blast the other ship before it shoots theirs and their pilot and captain get blown to smithereens! Only, the other ship's crew is on it, too, trying to find them, stop them, kill them, and steal their find
maybe there's something INSIDE the structure that is valuable to the second crew
so you said a story could be told in a paragraph. There's a story, and I can expand this for the NaNo? Draw it out? I can even tell it graphically, or maybe it would be better to just tell the story and through it in as text in a book that also contains pictures
maybe it happened during a war and the first crew's ship crashed into the structure and the second were just treasure hunters. But the first crew believes that the second are of the opposite side
yeah an illustrated story
another thing i'd add is that they're not all that much into violence, they mostly operate war machines through their ship. they don't fight often and see it as something avoidable. Making the decision of using the guns was somewhat extraordinary for them
!!! the ship contains monopolium for their reactors, for sure! But it's much more. . . That could be a story spanning centuries--like the scaling in Blame, and Revelation Space, which I've been gorging on lately. If the structures were sufficiently large, and took all that time to explore, and the crew of the ship that crashed was small enough. Say, towards the end of the war that caused this whole space-apocalypse, their ship got shot down, and they drifted, maybe for a long time, until they hit that structure. They assume they're still at war, and maybe they do recognize the structure as an enemy ship. One of the big, no supermassive planet-crackers they'd heard about, but never believed. Supposing they drifted for a long time, they might wonder if the war was still going, if the people they knew both up and down the command ladder were still alive. Getting shot apart and drifting from the battlefield could be an escape from the war, it could be nothing more than a much-delayed end for them. Approaching the structure as it loomed bigger and bigger in their field of view, becoming less a distant craft, more of a wall growing bigger. Growing fast. They're drifting fast enough relative to the wall to turn their ship and themselves into a bunch of white-hot atoms hundreds of meters below the surface of the wall, at the basin of a great big crater, if they can't figure out how to slow down
maybe i can write something interesting after all
That's great!
There's something to be done about the fact that they don't know if the war is over. Maybe they went through a blackhole and they woke up a thousand year in the future into one of the megastructure of the enemy (we and they realize this at the end) and a crew of treasure hunter and relic from the war collectors were going through the vestige of the structure
Or looking for the guns to overthrow the tyranic regime the winner of the war imposed for a thousand years
hmmm that last one's pretty interesting. i never got into time travel, and there's none of it in the usual sense. . . but going forward through time is allowed in special relativity. . . In fact, we can't stop. Maybe they were heroes of the war, who went through the black hole/wormhole/spacio-temporal anomaly. (Maybe they got superpowers from it!) It would be interesting to see what's changed in the last millenium. See how much of humanity has changed. They might be the only "humans" they know in this weird future. Maybe no one remembers them. Sounds kind of like BioMega, another one of Nihei's manga
I wouldn't go as far as to give them superpower based on that, but human (the treasure hunters) have evolved and may be weaker and smaller than them
haha the superpowers thing just slipped out. me and my buddy are working on a comic book in which we all get superpowers due to some sort of time traveling shadow realm. It's intentionally campy and heavily riffing on the mortal kombat movie
it's also totally all advertising for the fighting sport he invented. it's basically swordfighting with rules and we turned all the players into characters in this alternate future where we have to battle for the championsip so the actual future doesn't turn into this hellhole shitscape wasteland, or something like that
it's called Kendoball
his sport. we play it in colorado.
Oh and every time we enter the shadow realm we get super powers
and weapons
seems fun. But then again, scientifically speaking, you'd just die 
if we went into the shadow realm?
i think some of us do
especially patrick.
oh, well. Try putting all we said on paper (or word document) so i can review and advice. I gotta go.
will do. thanks for the advice, i think my wordsmithyness is coming back.
