We're now 30% into nano. . . I feel I've only just begun. Ten days in and I feel I'm finally starting to break through my writing block, and my melancholia--My Christmas depression. I'm still tongue-tied, mind you, though markedly less so now, as opposed to earlier. But I've been drawing. As meanwhile symphonies play in my head. The creativity is returning, even if the ability to express it eludes my memory.

This is all well and good, but it's still pretty dire for the NaNo. I have 19 days left, and probably 45000 to go, at a conservative count. That dont quite go in even, but it's over 2000 words a day. It's not impossible, and not even difficult, when I'm in a mood, to pull off that much in a half hour of focused writing, though getting into and staying in the mood where I can hold that focus is difficult. When I'm staring at that page, scrubbing toilets seems infinitely preferable to trying to work out the details of a story. So I dilly-dally, and tangent. . . and trail off. . .

But I mentioned that I've been drawing. Every now and again, my creative and even *educative* processes change. The changes are arbitrary and a result of changing perspective as I mature; Just different ways of viewing the world and modes of behavior producing thematically and stylistically different art in a variety of mediums. It might be more accurate to say that as I experience changing lifestyles and foci, avenues of thought, and I suspect you as well and most people in the world, I become different people. The me who went to the grocery store is not the me who sat down to write ten minutes ago, is not the me now. Is not the you, either, but we are all intimately related. I digress. The struggle for me is that I have little to no agency over the when and how of the changes. This sours the flavor of the experience, and thus the art, for I know that any good flow--good mood, where I'm in the zone, I feel hyper-aware, but not tweaky. It's that easy attitude that produces an ironically wonderful experience. When I'm there, it seems I could stay forever. The attitude feels so real, so genuine. I know it's not a mask in the usual sense. I am always sincere. Regardless of whatever particular persona I may be playing, I play it sincerely. . . .But, eventually, in comes the tide, and the attitude, and its effect on my life, fades. Memories become altered as I see through new perspectives, highlighting different key aspects of each memory in sequence, never wholly complete and integrated. The experience is analysed and broken down. No longer an experience at all, really. It is a collection of indices, marking manners of thought, modes of behavior, goals, duties, costs, risk/reward, options regarding future plans and reactions, tasks, drivel. It is as if every once in a while I have a brief period of pure existentiality. A period to take in the senses of the world, followed by an extended period devoted to digesting the experience, turning it into something processable by my mentality, with brief interludes of furious expressivity, like the spirit of the primordial creative soup belching up pockets of realized fantasy.

I did something different with my writer's block this time. I gave in. I gave up. I didn't have the energy to struggle for just *one* more word anymore. I opened Krita, put on the *Revelation Space* unabridged audiobook narrated by John Lee, or an interesting video by Isaac Arthur, and doodled characters. I watched some movies, ate *A LOT* of candy, and tried to troubleshoot some probelems with my Arch Linux laptop. I indulged in other activities that are twice as exciting, and *almost* just as creative. I allowed my mind to soak in the experience I was having. Digest it. Break down its essence into primary components more chewable. I did make an effort to stay on task. I don't want to get *too* carried away with my indulgences or scattered with my projects. It had the effect I desired, against expectations. It's not all *hokey-dokely*, but it's a start.